docs/js.rst, before:

.. php:namespace: atk4\\ui

.. _js:

==================
JavaScript Mapping
==================

A modern user interface cannot exist without JavaScript. Agile UI provides you assistance with
generating and executing events directly from PHP and the context of your Views. The most basic
example of such integration would be a button, that hides itself when clicked::

    $b = new Button();
    $b->js('click')->hide();

Introduction
============

Agile UI does not replace JavaScript. It encourages you to keep JavaScript routines as generic
as possible, then associate them with your UI through actions and events.

A great example would be `jQuery` library. It is designed to be usable with any HTML mark-up and
by specifying selector, you can perform certain actions:

.. code-block:: js

    $('#my-long-id').hide();

Agile UI provides a built-in integration for jQuery. To use jQuery and any other JavaScript library
in Agile UI you need to understand how Action sand Events work.

.. _js_action:

Actions
-------

Action is represented through a PHP object that can map itself into a JavaScript code. For instance
the code for hiding a view can be generated by calling::

    $action = $view->js()->hide();

We used this `hide` method to previously hide the button. There are other ways to generate action,
such as using jsExpression()::

    $action = new jsExpression('alert([])', ['Hello world']);

Finally, actions can be used inside other actions::


    $action = new jsExpression('alert([])', [
        $view->js()->text()
    ]);

    // will produce alert($('#button-id').text());

or::

    $action = $view->js()->text(new jsExpression('[] + []', [
        5,
        10
    ]));


All of the mentioned 4 examples will produce a valid "action" object that can be used further.

.. important::

    We never encourage writing JavaScript logic in PHP. The purpose of JS layer is for binding
    events and actions with your generic JavaScript routines.

Events
------

Agile UI also offers a great way to associate your actions with certain client-side events. Those
events can be triggered by the user or by other JavaScript code. There are several ways to bind
`$action`.

To execute actions instantly on page load, use `true` as first argument to `js()`::

    $view->js(
        true,
        new jsExpression('alert([])', ['Hello world']
    );

You can also combine both forms together::

    $view->js(true)->hide();


Finally, you can specify name of JavaScript event::

    $view->js('click')->hide();

Agile UI also provides support for an `on` event binding. This allows you to apply events on
multiple elements::

    $buttons = new Buttons();

    $buttons->add(new Button('One'));
    $buttons->add(new Button('Two'));
    $buttons->add(new Button('Three'));

    $buttons->on('click', '.button')->hide();

All the above examples will map themselves into a simple and readable JavaScript code. If you
wish to see what JavaScript code is produced by certain view or it's sub-elements, see :ref:`debugging`


Extending
---------

Agile UI builds upon the concepts of actions and events in the following ways:

 - Action can be any arbitraty JavaScript with parameters:
   - parameters are always escaped with json_encode,
   - action can have another nested actions,
   - you can build your own integration patterns.

 - jsChain provide Action extension for JavaScript frameworks:
   - jQuery is implementation of jQuery binding through jsChain,
   - various 3rd party extensions can integrate other frameworks,
   - any jQuery plugin will work out-of-the-box.

 - PHP closure can be used to wrap action-generation code:
   - Agile UI event will map AJAX call to the event,
   - closure can respond with additional actions,
   - various UI elements (such as Form) extend this concept further.

Including JS/CSS
----------------

Sometimes you need to include an additional .js or .css file for your code
to work. See :php:meth:`App::requireJS()` and :php:meth:`App::requireCSS()`
for details.


Building actions with jsExpressionable
======================================


.. php:interface:: jsExpressionable

    Allow objects of the class implementing this interface to participate in
    building JavaScript expressions.

.. php:method:: jsRender

    Express object as a string containing valid JavaScript statement or expression.


:php:class:`View` class implements jsExpressionable and will present itself as a valid selector. Example::

    $frame = new View();

    $button->js(true)->appendTo($frame);

    // Resulting code:
    // $('#button-id').appendTo('#frame-id');
    // which will be executed on page load



JavaScript Chain Building
-------------------------

.. php:class:: jsChain

    Base class jsChain can be extended by other classes such as jQuery to provide transparent
    mappers for any JavaScript framework.

Chain is a PHP object that represents one or several actions that are to be executed on the
client side. The jsChain objects themselves are generic, so in my examples I'll be using jQuery which
is a descendant of jsChain::

    $chain = new jQuery('#the-box-id');

    $chain->dropdown();

The calls to the chain are stored in the object and can be converted into JavaScript by calling :php:meth:`jsChain::jsRender()`

.. php:method:: jsRender()

    Converts actions recorded in jsChain into string of JavaScript code.

Executing::

    echo $chain->jsRender();

will output:

.. code-block:: js

    $('#the-box-id').dropdown();

.. important::

    It's considered a vary bad practice if you perform jsRender and output the JavaScript code manually. Agile UI takes care of
    JavaScript binding and also decides which actions should be appearing for you as long as you create actions for your chain.

.. php:method:: _json_encode

    jsChain will map all the other methods into JS counterparts while encoding all the arguments through _json_encode(). Although
    similar to a standard json_encode function, this method recognizes :php:interface:`jsExpressionable` objects and will
    substitute them with the result of :php:meth:`jsExpressionable::jsRender`. The result will not be escaped and any object
    implementing jsExpressionable interface is responsible for safe JavaScript generation.

The following code is safe::

    $b = new Button();
    $b->js(true)->text($_GET['button_text']);

Any malicious input through the GET arguments will be wrapped through json_encode before being included as an
argument to `text()`.

View to JS integration
----------------------

We are not building JavaScript code just for the excercise. Our whole point is ability to link that code
between actual views. All views support JavaScript binding through two methods: :php:meth:`View::js()` and :php:meth:`View::on()`.

.. php:class:: View
.. php:method:: js([$event, [$other_action]])

    Return action chain that targets this view. As event you can specify `true` which will make chain automatically execute
    on document ready event. You can specify a specific JavaScript event such as `"click"` or `"mousein"`. You can also use your
    custom event that you would trigger manually. If `$event` is false or null, no event binding will be performed.

    If `$other_chain` is specified together with event, it will also be bound to said event. `$other_chain` can also be
    a PHP closure.



Several usage cases for plain `js()` method. The most basic scenario is to perform action on the view when event happens::

    $b1 = new Button('One');
    $b1->js('click')->hide();

    $b2 = new Button('Two');
    $b2->js('click', $b1->js()->hide());


.. php:method:: on(String $event, [String selector], $callback = null)

    Returns chain that will be automatically executed if $event occurs. If $callback is specified, it
    will also be executed on event.

The following code will show 3 buttons and clicking any button will hide itself. Only a single action is created::

    $buttons = Buttons();

    $buttons->add(new Button('One'));
    $buttons->add(new Button('Two'));
    $buttons->add(new Button('Three'));

    $buttons->on('click', '.button')->hide();


    // Generates:
    // $('#top-element-id').on('click', '.button', function($event){
    //   event.stopPropagation();
    //   event.preventDefault();
    //   $(this).hide();
    // });


Method on() is handy when you have multiple elements inside your view that you want to trigger action individually.
The best example would be a :php:class:`Lister` with interractive elements::

    $buttons = Buttons();

    $b1 = $buttons->add(new Button('One'));
    $b2 = $buttons->add(new Button('Two'));
    $b3 = $buttons->add(new Button('Three'));

    $buttons->on('click', '.button', $b3->js()->hide());

    // Generates:
    // $('#top-element-id').on('click', '.button', function($event){
    //   event.stopPropagation();
    //   event.preventDefault();
    //   $('#b3-element-id').hide();
    // });

You can use both actions together. The next example will allow only one button to be active::

    $buttons = Buttons();

    $b1 = $buttons->add(new Button('One'));
    $b2 = $buttons->add(new Button('Two'));
    $b3 = $buttons->add(new Button('Three'));

    $buttons->on('click', '.button', $b3->js()->hide());

    // Generates:
    // $('#top-element-id').on('click', '.button', function($event){
    //   event.stopPropagation();
    //   event.preventDefault();
    //   $('#b3-element-id').hide();
    // });



jsExpression
============

.. php:class:: jsExpression
.. php:method:: __construct(template, args)

    Returns object that renders into template by substituting args into it.

Sometimes you want to execute action by calling a global JavaScript method. For this
and other cases you can use jsExpression::

    $action = new jsExpression('alert([])', [
        $view->js()->text()
    ]);

Because :php:class:`jsChain` will typically wrap all the arguments through
:php:meth:`jsChain::_json_encode()`, it prevents you from accidentally injecting
a JavaScript code::

    $b = new Button();
    $b->js(true)->text('2+2');

This will result in a button having a label `2+2` instead of having a label `4`. To
get around this, you can use jsExpression::

    $b = new Button();
    $b->js(true)->text(new jsExpression('2+2'));

This time `2+2` is no longer escaped and will be used as a plain JS code. Another example
shows how you can use global variables::

    echo (new jQuery('document'))->find('h1')->hide()->jsRender();

    // produces $('document').find('h1').hide();
    // does not hide anything because document is treated as string selector!

    $expr = new jsExpression('document');
    echo (new jQuery($expr))->find('h1')->hide()->jsRender();

    // produces $(document).find('h1').hide();
    // works correctly!!

Template of jsExpression
------------------------

The jsExpression class provides the most simple implementation that can be useful for providing
any JavaScript expressions. My next example will set height of right container to the sum of 2
boxes on the left::

    $h1 = $left_box1->js()->height();
    $h2 = $left_box2->js()->height();

    $sum = new jsExpression('[]+[]', [$h1, $h2]);

    $right_box_container->js(true)->height( $sum );

It is important that you remember that height of an element is a browser-side property and you
must operate with it in your browser by passing expressions into chain.


The template language for jsExpression is super-simple:

 - [] will be mapped to next argument in the argument array
 - [foo] will be mapped to named argument in argument array

So the following three lines are identical::

    $sum = new jsExpression('[]+[]', [$h1, $h2]);
    $sum = new jsExpression('[0]+[1]', [0=>$h1, 1=>$h2]);
    $sum = new jsExpression('[a]+[b]', ['a'=>$h1, 'b'=>$h2]);

.. important::

    We have specifically selected a very simple tag format as a reminder to you not to write
    any code as part of jsExpression. You must not use jsExpression() for anything complex.


Writing JavaScript code
-----------------------

If you know JavaScript you are likely to write more extensive methods to provide extended
functionality for your user browsers. Agile UI does not attempt to stop you from doing that,
but you should follow a proper pattern.

Open a new file `test.js` and type:

.. code-block:: js

    function mySum(arr) {
        return arr.reduce(function(a, b) {
            return a+b;
        }, 0);
    }

Then load this JavaScript dependency on your page. Refer to :php:meth:`App::includeJS()` and
:php:meth:`App::includeCSS()`. Finally use UI code as a "glue" between your routine
and the actual View objects. In my example, I'll be trying to match the size of `$right_container`
with the size of `$left_container`::

    $heights = [];

    foreach ($left_container->elements as $left_box) {
        $heights[] = $left_box->js()->height();
    }

    $right_container->js(true)->height(new jsExpression('mySum([])', [$heights]));

This will map into the following JavaScript code:

.. code-block:: js

    $('#right_container_id').height(mySum([
        $('#left_box1').height(), $('#left_box2').height(), $('#left_box3').height() // etc
    ]));

You can further simplify JavaScript code yourself, but keep the JavaScript logic inside the `.js` files
and leave PHP only for binding.

Modal
=====

.. php:class:: Modal

.. php:method:: set(callback)
.. php:method:: show()
.. php:method:: hide()

This class allows you to open modal dialogs and close them easily. It's based around Fomantic UI
`.modal(), <https://fomantic-ui.com/modules/modal.html>`_ but integrates PHP callback for dynamically
producing content of your dialog::


    $modal = $app->add(['Modal', 'title' => 'Simple title']);
    $modal->set(function ($p) use ($modal) {
        $p->add('LoremIpsum');

        $p->add(['Button', 'Hide'])->on('click', $modal->hide());
    });

    $app->add(['Button', 'Show'])->on('click', $modal->show());

Modal will render as a `<div>` block but will be hidden. Alternatively you can use Modal without loadable content::

    $modal = $app->add(['Modal', 'title' => 'Add a name']);
    $modal->add('LoremIpsum');
    $modal->add(['Button', 'Hide'])->on('click', $modal->hide());

    $app->add(['Button', 'Show'])->on('click', $modal->show());

This way it's more convenient for holding static content, such as Terms of Service.


jsModal
=======

.. php:class:: jsModal

This is alternative implementation to :php:class:`Modal` and is convenient for situations
when you do not know in advance that you migth need to open Dialog box. This class is not
a component, but rathen an Action so you mustn't add it into Render Tree::

    $vp = $app->add('VirtualPage');
    $vp->add(['LoremIpsum', 'size' => 2]);

    $app->add(['Button', 'Dynamic Modal'])
        ->on('click', new \atk4\ui\jsModal('My Popup Title', $vp->getURL('cut')));

If compare this with example for :php:class:`Modal`, you'll notice that Modal div is always
destroyed when you close modal instead of hiding it and then re-created again.

jsNotify
========

.. php:class:: jsNotify
.. php:method:: setColor(color)

Implementation for dynamic notifier, which you can use to display operation status::

    $app->add(['Button', 'Test'])->on(
        'click',
        (new \atk4\ui\jsNotify('Not yet implemented'))
            ->setColor('red')
    );


A typical use case would be to provide visual feedback of an action after used performs operation inside
a Modal window with a Form. When user submits a form, it's Submit handler will close modal, so to leave
some feedback to the user jsNotify can display a bar on top of the screen for some time::

    $modal = $app->add(['Modal', 'Modal Title']);

    $modal->set(function ($p) use ($modal) {
        $form = $p->add('Form');
        $form->addField('name', null, ['caption'=>'Add your name']);

        $form->onSubmit(function ($f) use ($modal) {
            if (empty($f->model['name'])) {
                return $f->error('name', 'Please add a name!');
            } else {
                return [
                    $modal->hide(),
                    new \atk4\ui\jsNotify('Thank you '.$f->model['name'])
                ];
            }
        });
    });

    $app->add(['Button', 'Open Modal'])->on('click', $modal->show());

.. php:method:: setIcon(color)
.. php:method:: setTransition(openTransition, closeTransition)
.. php:method:: setDuration(duration)
.. php:method:: setPosition(duration)
.. php:method:: setWidth(duration)
.. php:method:: setOpacity(duration)

You can pass options either as array or by calling methods.

.. php:method:: attachTo(view)

Finally you can attach your notification to another view::

    $jsNotify->attachTo($form);



Reloading
=========

.. php:class:: jsReload

jsReload is a JavaScript action that performs reload of a certain object::

    $js_reload_table = new jsReload($table);

This action can be used similar to any other jsExpression. For intance completing the form can reload some
other view::

    $m_book = new Book($db);

    $f = $app->add('Form');
    $t = $app->add('Table');

    $f->setModel($m_book);

    $f->onSubmit(function($f) use($t) {
        $f->model->save();
        return new \atk4\ui\jsReload($t);
    });

    $t->setModel($m_book);

In this example, filling out and submitting the form will result in table contents being refreshed using AJAX.


Background Tasks
================

Agile UI has addressed one of the big shortcoming with the PHP language - ability to execute running / background
processes. It's best illustrated with example.

Say you need to process a large image, resize, find face, watermark, create thumbnails and store externally. For
the average image this could take 5-10 seconds, so you'd like to user updated about the process. There are
various ways to do so.

The most basic approach you could probably figure out already::

    $button = $app->add(['Button', 'Process the image']);
    $button->on('click', function() use($button, $image) {

        sleep(1); // $image->resize();
        sleep(1); // $image->findFace();
        sleep(1); // $image->watermark();
        sleep(1); // $image->createThumbnails();

        return $button->js()->text('Success')->addClass('disabled');

    });

However, it would be nice if you could communicate to the user the progress of your process:

.. _sse:

Server Sent Event (jsSSE)
-------------------------

.. php:class:: jsSSE

.. php:method:: send(action)

This class implements ability for your PHP code to send messages to the browser in the middle of the process
execution::

    $button = $app->add(['Button', 'Process the image']);

    $sse = $app->add(['jsSSE']);

    $button->on('click', $sse->set(function() use($sse, $button, $image) {

        $sse->send($button->js()->text('Processing'));
        sleep(1); // $image->resize();

        $sse->send($button->js()->text('Looking for face'));
        sleep(1); // $image->findFace();

        $sse->send($button->js()->text('Adding watermark'));
        sleep(1); // $image->watermark();

        $sse->send($button->js()->text('Creating thumbnail'));
        sleep(1); // $image->createThumbnails();

        return $button->js()->text('Success')->addClass('disabled');

    });

The jsSSE component plays a crucial role in some high-level components such as :php:class:`Console` and :php:class:`ProgressBar`.

Commit message:

Add Documentation for addContentCss() feature

docs/js.rst, after:

.. php:namespace: atk4\\ui

.. _js:

==================
JavaScript Mapping
==================

A modern user interface cannot exist without JavaScript. Agile UI provides you assistance with
generating and executing events directly from PHP and the context of your Views. The most basic
example of such integration would be a button, that hides itself when clicked::

    $b = new Button();
    $b->js('click')->hide();

Introduction
============

Agile UI does not replace JavaScript. It encourages you to keep JavaScript routines as generic
as possible, then associate them with your UI through actions and events.

A great example would be `jQuery` library. It is designed to be usable with any HTML mark-up and
by specifying selector, you can perform certain actions:

.. code-block:: js

    $('#my-long-id').hide();

Agile UI provides a built-in integration for jQuery. To use jQuery and any other JavaScript library
in Agile UI you need to understand how Action sand Events work.

.. _js_action:

Actions
-------

Action is represented through a PHP object that can map itself into a JavaScript code. For instance
the code for hiding a view can be generated by calling::

    $action = $view->js()->hide();

We used this `hide` method to previously hide the button. There are other ways to generate action,
such as using jsExpression()::

    $action = new jsExpression('alert([])', ['Hello world']);

Finally, actions can be used inside other actions::


    $action = new jsExpression('alert([])', [
        $view->js()->text()
    ]);

    // will produce alert($('#button-id').text());

or::

    $action = $view->js()->text(new jsExpression('[] + []', [
        5,
        10
    ]));


All of the mentioned 4 examples will produce a valid "action" object that can be used further.

.. important::

    We never encourage writing JavaScript logic in PHP. The purpose of JS layer is for binding
    events and actions with your generic JavaScript routines.

Events
------

Agile UI also offers a great way to associate your actions with certain client-side events. Those
events can be triggered by the user or by other JavaScript code. There are several ways to bind
`$action`.

To execute actions instantly on page load, use `true` as first argument to `js()`::

    $view->js(
        true,
        new jsExpression('alert([])', ['Hello world']
    );

You can also combine both forms together::

    $view->js(true)->hide();


Finally, you can specify name of JavaScript event::

    $view->js('click')->hide();

Agile UI also provides support for an `on` event binding. This allows you to apply events on
multiple elements::

    $buttons = new Buttons();

    $buttons->add(new Button('One'));
    $buttons->add(new Button('Two'));
    $buttons->add(new Button('Three'));

    $buttons->on('click', '.button')->hide();

All the above examples will map themselves into a simple and readable JavaScript code. If you
wish to see what JavaScript code is produced by certain view or it's sub-elements, see :ref:`debugging`


Extending
---------

Agile UI builds upon the concepts of actions and events in the following ways:

 - Action can be any arbitraty JavaScript with parameters:
   - parameters are always escaped with json_encode,
   - action can have another nested actions,
   - you can build your own integration patterns.

 - jsChain provide Action extension for JavaScript frameworks:
   - jQuery is implementation of jQuery binding through jsChain,
   - various 3rd party extensions can integrate other frameworks,
   - any jQuery plugin will work out-of-the-box.

 - PHP closure can be used to wrap action-generation code:
   - Agile UI event will map AJAX call to the event,
   - closure can respond with additional actions,
   - various UI elements (such as Form) extend this concept further.

Including JS/CSS
----------------

Sometimes you need to include an additional .js or .css file for your code
to work. See :php:meth:`App::requireJS()` and :php:meth:`App::requireCSS()`
for details.


Building actions with jsExpressionable
======================================


.. php:interface:: jsExpressionable

    Allow objects of the class implementing this interface to participate in
    building JavaScript expressions.

.. php:method:: jsRender

    Express object as a string containing valid JavaScript statement or expression.


:php:class:`View` class implements jsExpressionable and will present itself as a valid selector. Example::

    $frame = new View();

    $button->js(true)->appendTo($frame);

    // Resulting code:
    // $('#button-id').appendTo('#frame-id');
    // which will be executed on page load



JavaScript Chain Building
-------------------------

.. php:class:: jsChain

    Base class jsChain can be extended by other classes such as jQuery to provide transparent
    mappers for any JavaScript framework.

Chain is a PHP object that represents one or several actions that are to be executed on the
client side. The jsChain objects themselves are generic, so in my examples I'll be using jQuery which
is a descendant of jsChain::

    $chain = new jQuery('#the-box-id');

    $chain->dropdown();

The calls to the chain are stored in the object and can be converted into JavaScript by calling :php:meth:`jsChain::jsRender()`

.. php:method:: jsRender()

    Converts actions recorded in jsChain into string of JavaScript code.

Executing::

    echo $chain->jsRender();

will output:

.. code-block:: js

    $('#the-box-id').dropdown();

.. important::

    It's considered a vary bad practice if you perform jsRender and output the JavaScript code manually. Agile UI takes care of
    JavaScript binding and also decides which actions should be appearing for you as long as you create actions for your chain.

.. php:method:: _json_encode

    jsChain will map all the other methods into JS counterparts while encoding all the arguments through _json_encode(). Although
    similar to a standard json_encode function, this method recognizes :php:interface:`jsExpressionable` objects and will
    substitute them with the result of :php:meth:`jsExpressionable::jsRender`. The result will not be escaped and any object
    implementing jsExpressionable interface is responsible for safe JavaScript generation.

The following code is safe::

    $b = new Button();
    $b->js(true)->text($_GET['button_text']);

Any malicious input through the GET arguments will be wrapped through json_encode before being included as an
argument to `text()`.

View to JS integration
----------------------

We are not building JavaScript code just for the excercise. Our whole point is ability to link that code
between actual views. All views support JavaScript binding through two methods: :php:meth:`View::js()` and :php:meth:`View::on()`.

.. php:class:: View
.. php:method:: js([$event, [$other_action]])

    Return action chain that targets this view. As event you can specify `true` which will make chain automatically execute
    on document ready event. You can specify a specific JavaScript event such as `"click"` or `"mousein"`. You can also use your
    custom event that you would trigger manually. If `$event` is false or null, no event binding will be performed.

    If `$other_chain` is specified together with event, it will also be bound to said event. `$other_chain` can also be
    a PHP closure.



Several usage cases for plain `js()` method. The most basic scenario is to perform action on the view when event happens::

    $b1 = new Button('One');
    $b1->js('click')->hide();

    $b2 = new Button('Two');
    $b2->js('click', $b1->js()->hide());


.. php:method:: on(String $event, [String selector], $callback = null)

    Returns chain that will be automatically executed if $event occurs. If $callback is specified, it
    will also be executed on event.

The following code will show 3 buttons and clicking any button will hide itself. Only a single action is created::

    $buttons = Buttons();

    $buttons->add(new Button('One'));
    $buttons->add(new Button('Two'));
    $buttons->add(new Button('Three'));

    $buttons->on('click', '.button')->hide();


    // Generates:
    // $('#top-element-id').on('click', '.button', function($event){
    //   event.stopPropagation();
    //   event.preventDefault();
    //   $(this).hide();
    // });


Method on() is handy when you have multiple elements inside your view that you want to trigger action individually.
The best example would be a :php:class:`Lister` with interractive elements::

    $buttons = Buttons();

    $b1 = $buttons->add(new Button('One'));
    $b2 = $buttons->add(new Button('Two'));
    $b3 = $buttons->add(new Button('Three'));

    $buttons->on('click', '.button', $b3->js()->hide());

    // Generates:
    // $('#top-element-id').on('click', '.button', function($event){
    //   event.stopPropagation();
    //   event.preventDefault();
    //   $('#b3-element-id').hide();
    // });

You can use both actions together. The next example will allow only one button to be active::

    $buttons = Buttons();

    $b1 = $buttons->add(new Button('One'));
    $b2 = $buttons->add(new Button('Two'));
    $b3 = $buttons->add(new Button('Three'));

    $buttons->on('click', '.button', $b3->js()->hide());

    // Generates:
    // $('#top-element-id').on('click', '.button', function($event){
    //   event.stopPropagation();
    //   event.preventDefault();
    //   $('#b3-element-id').hide();
    // });



jsExpression
============

.. php:class:: jsExpression
.. php:method:: __construct(template, args)

    Returns object that renders into template by substituting args into it.

Sometimes you want to execute action by calling a global JavaScript method. For this
and other cases you can use jsExpression::

    $action = new jsExpression('alert([])', [
        $view->js()->text()
    ]);

Because :php:class:`jsChain` will typically wrap all the arguments through
:php:meth:`jsChain::_json_encode()`, it prevents you from accidentally injecting
a JavaScript code::

    $b = new Button();
    $b->js(true)->text('2+2');

This will result in a button having a label `2+2` instead of having a label `4`. To
get around this, you can use jsExpression::

    $b = new Button();
    $b->js(true)->text(new jsExpression('2+2'));

This time `2+2` is no longer escaped and will be used as a plain JS code. Another example
shows how you can use global variables::

    echo (new jQuery('document'))->find('h1')->hide()->jsRender();

    // produces $('document').find('h1').hide();
    // does not hide anything because document is treated as string selector!

    $expr = new jsExpression('document');
    echo (new jQuery($expr))->find('h1')->hide()->jsRender();

    // produces $(document).find('h1').hide();
    // works correctly!!

Template of jsExpression
------------------------

The jsExpression class provides the most simple implementation that can be useful for providing
any JavaScript expressions. My next example will set height of right container to the sum of 2
boxes on the left::

    $h1 = $left_box1->js()->height();
    $h2 = $left_box2->js()->height();

    $sum = new jsExpression('[]+[]', [$h1, $h2]);

    $right_box_container->js(true)->height( $sum );

It is important that you remember that height of an element is a browser-side property and you
must operate with it in your browser by passing expressions into chain.


The template language for jsExpression is super-simple:

 - [] will be mapped to next argument in the argument array
 - [foo] will be mapped to named argument in argument array

So the following three lines are identical::

    $sum = new jsExpression('[]+[]', [$h1, $h2]);
    $sum = new jsExpression('[0]+[1]', [0=>$h1, 1=>$h2]);
    $sum = new jsExpression('[a]+[b]', ['a'=>$h1, 'b'=>$h2]);

.. important::

    We have specifically selected a very simple tag format as a reminder to you not to write
    any code as part of jsExpression. You must not use jsExpression() for anything complex.


Writing JavaScript code
-----------------------

If you know JavaScript you are likely to write more extensive methods to provide extended
functionality for your user browsers. Agile UI does not attempt to stop you from doing that,
but you should follow a proper pattern.

Open a new file `test.js` and type:

.. code-block:: js

    function mySum(arr) {
        return arr.reduce(function(a, b) {
            return a+b;
        }, 0);
    }

Then load this JavaScript dependency on your page. Refer to :php:meth:`App::includeJS()` and
:php:meth:`App::includeCSS()`. Finally use UI code as a "glue" between your routine
and the actual View objects. In my example, I'll be trying to match the size of `$right_container`
with the size of `$left_container`::

    $heights = [];

    foreach ($left_container->elements as $left_box) {
        $heights[] = $left_box->js()->height();
    }

    $right_container->js(true)->height(new jsExpression('mySum([])', [$heights]));

This will map into the following JavaScript code:

.. code-block:: js

    $('#right_container_id').height(mySum([
        $('#left_box1').height(), $('#left_box2').height(), $('#left_box3').height() // etc
    ]));

You can further simplify JavaScript code yourself, but keep the JavaScript logic inside the `.js` files
and leave PHP only for binding.

Modal
=====

.. php:class:: Modal

.. php:method:: set(callback)
.. php:method:: show()
.. php:method:: hide()
.. php:method:: addContentCss()
.. php:method:: addScrolling()
.. php:method:: setOption()
.. php:method:: setOptions()

This class allows you to open modal dialogs and close them easily. It's based around Fomantic UI
`.modal(), <https://fomantic-ui.com/modules/modal.html>`_ but integrates PHP callback for dynamically
producing content of your dialog::


    $modal = $app->add(['Modal', 'title' => 'Simple title']);
    $modal->set(function ($p) use ($modal) {
        $p->add('LoremIpsum');

        $p->add(['Button', 'Hide'])->on('click', $modal->hide());
    });

    $app->add(['Button', 'Show'])->on('click', $modal->show());

Modal will render as a `<div>` block but will be hidden. Alternatively you can use Modal without loadable content::

    $modal = $app->add(['Modal', 'title' => 'Add a name']);
    $modal->add('LoremIpsum');
    $modal->add(['Button', 'Hide'])->on('click', $modal->hide());

    $app->add(['Button', 'Show'])->on('click', $modal->show());

This way it's more convenient for holding static content, such as Terms of Service.

You can customize the CSS classes of both header and content section of the modal using the properties `headerCss` or `contentCss` or use the method `addContentCss()`. See the Fomantic UI modal documentation for further information.


jsModal
=======

.. php:class:: jsModal

This is alternative implementation to :php:class:`Modal` and is convenient for situations
when you do not know in advance that you migth need to open Dialog box. This class is not
a component, but rather an Action so you mustn't add it into Render Tree::

    $vp = $app->add('VirtualPage');
    $vp->add(['LoremIpsum', 'size' => 2]);

    $app->add(['Button', 'Dynamic Modal'])
        ->on('click', new \atk4\ui\jsModal('My Popup Title', $vp->getURL('cut')));

If compare this with example for :php:class:`Modal`, you'll notice that Modal div is always
destroyed when you close modal instead of hiding it and then re-created again.

jsNotify
========

.. php:class:: jsNotify
.. php:method:: setColor(color)

Implementation for dynamic notifier, which you can use to display operation status::

    $app->add(['Button', 'Test'])->on(
        'click',
        (new \atk4\ui\jsNotify('Not yet implemented'))
            ->setColor('red')
    );


A typical use case would be to provide visual feedback of an action after used performs operation inside
a Modal window with a Form. When user submits a form, it's Submit handler will close modal, so to leave
some feedback to the user jsNotify can display a bar on top of the screen for some time::

    $modal = $app->add(['Modal', 'Modal Title']);

    $modal->set(function ($p) use ($modal) {
        $form = $p->add('Form');
        $form->addField('name', null, ['caption'=>'Add your name']);

        $form->onSubmit(function ($f) use ($modal) {
            if (empty($f->model['name'])) {
                return $f->error('name', 'Please add a name!');
            } else {
                return [
                    $modal->hide(),
                    new \atk4\ui\jsNotify('Thank you '.$f->model['name'])
                ];
            }
        });
    });

    $app->add(['Button', 'Open Modal'])->on('click', $modal->show());

.. php:method:: setIcon(color)
.. php:method:: setTransition(openTransition, closeTransition)
.. php:method:: setDuration(duration)
.. php:method:: setPosition(duration)
.. php:method:: setWidth(duration)
.. php:method:: setOpacity(duration)

You can pass options either as array or by calling methods.

.. php:method:: attachTo(view)

Finally you can attach your notification to another view::

    $jsNotify->attachTo($form);



Reloading
=========

.. php:class:: jsReload

jsReload is a JavaScript action that performs reload of a certain object::

    $js_reload_table = new jsReload($table);

This action can be used similar to any other jsExpression. For intance completing the form can reload some
other view::

    $m_book = new Book($db);

    $f = $app->add('Form');
    $t = $app->add('Table');

    $f->setModel($m_book);

    $f->onSubmit(function($f) use($t) {
        $f->model->save();
        return new \atk4\ui\jsReload($t);
    });

    $t->setModel($m_book);

In this example, filling out and submitting the form will result in table contents being refreshed using AJAX.


Background Tasks
================

Agile UI has addressed one of the big shortcoming with the PHP language - ability to execute running / background
processes. It's best illustrated with example.

Say you need to process a large image, resize, find face, watermark, create thumbnails and store externally. For
the average image this could take 5-10 seconds, so you'd like to user updated about the process. There are
various ways to do so.

The most basic approach you could probably figure out already::

    $button = $app->add(['Button', 'Process the image']);
    $button->on('click', function() use($button, $image) {

        sleep(1); // $image->resize();
        sleep(1); // $image->findFace();
        sleep(1); // $image->watermark();
        sleep(1); // $image->createThumbnails();

        return $button->js()->text('Success')->addClass('disabled');

    });

However, it would be nice if you could communicate to the user the progress of your process:

.. _sse:

Server Sent Event (jsSSE)
-------------------------

.. php:class:: jsSSE

.. php:method:: send(action)

This class implements ability for your PHP code to send messages to the browser in the middle of the process
execution::

    $button = $app->add(['Button', 'Process the image']);

    $sse = $app->add(['jsSSE']);

    $button->on('click', $sse->set(function() use($sse, $button, $image) {

        $sse->send($button->js()->text('Processing'));
        sleep(1); // $image->resize();

        $sse->send($button->js()->text('Looking for face'));
        sleep(1); // $image->findFace();

        $sse->send($button->js()->text('Adding watermark'));
        sleep(1); // $image->watermark();

        $sse->send($button->js()->text('Creating thumbnail'));
        sleep(1); // $image->createThumbnails();

        return $button->js()->text('Success')->addClass('disabled');

    });

The jsSSE component plays a crucial role in some high-level components such as :php:class:`Console` and :php:class:`ProgressBar`.
